feat(TestModels): ExternV2 (#306)
awslabs/smithy-dafny: TestModels/ExternV2/README.md

Reviewer: Issue: It appears we can use 1 stone to solve two problems:
1. I want to name my extern class `foo` in runtimes `x` and `bar` in runtimes `y`
2. I want logic `a` in runtimes `phi` and logic `b` in runtimes `theta`

Since `x` may not equal `phi` or `theta`, we may have lots of `replaces` modules.
While this gives us the most flexibility, 
I wonder if it would not be simpler to remove this flexibility
in favor of "Easy to Use".

Rather than having `replaces` modules for both
the path-syntax and the runtime specific behavior,
could we just establish that every `extern` will have a runtime specific `replaces`
for every runtime we support?

Thus, instead of having:
- for every runtime in runtimes, Index<runtime>.dfy
- for every path-naming in path namings, Index<path-naming>.dfy

We would just have:
- for every runtime in runtimes, Index<runtime>.dfy

I suggest this,
as I find it very unlikely that any runtimes will
share a proper naming convention.

Yes, some runtimes may have naming conventions that 
allow for a package name to be used by both.
But that "common-legal" name is unlikely to be idiomatic in both.

Right now, our .NET packages use Java naming conventions.
Which is legal, but not idiomatic.

It also feels unnecessarily complicated to track 
naming conventions and runtime behavior separately.

Author: Yes, exactly. I called this tradeoff out in the PR description as something reviewers should provide feedback on. We can go in this direction if we think it's better.

# SimpleExternV2

This project tests implementing a [dafny extern](https://homepage.cs.uiowa.edu/~tinelli/classes/181/Papers/dafny-reference.pdf#15) using the "V2 Extern" system.
This models and its shapes are identical to operations in the `Extern` TestModel, only with "V2" suffixes appended.

This V2 extern system uses the `replaceable` and `replaces` keywords in conjunction with the `outer-module` compile flag to allow a module to have idiomatic extern names in each target language.

> Under this V2 system, manually-written Dafny source code should mark `module`s that are intended to be `extern` as `replaceable`.

Reviewer 2: I think we should clarify here that by `extern` we mean having the module under a specific path, and not have an extern implementation.

Author: How about this:

```
Under this V2 system, a Dafny developer should not mark a module as `extern` if the path to the extern module depends on language-specific features. (e.g. an `:extern "sample.namespace.MyExternModule"` makes sense for Java externs, but the `.`s will break Python externs.)
Instead of marking this module as `extern`, the developer should mark the module as `replaceable`.
Then, they should create a new module that `replaces` the `replaceable` module. The developer should add the `extern` attribute to this new module. This module's `extern` attribute will define a language-idiomatic path syntax.
For each path syntax, the developer should create a separate module that `replaces` the `replaceable` module.
```

# SimpleExternV2

This project tests implementing a [dafny extern](https://homepage.cs.uiowa.edu/~tinelli/classes/181/Papers/dafny-reference.pdf#15) using the "V2 Extern" system.

> This models and its shapes are based on to operations in the `Extern` TestModel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model and its shapes are based on to operations in the `Extern` TestModel.
```

The differences between these two TestModels are:
* V2 suffixes are appended to classes and operations
* The NET implementation of the `simple.dafnyexternv2.internaldafny` extern contains an extern method that is not present in other languages (as a demonstration; see below)
* The `ExternV2Constructor` is moved to `simple.dafnyexternv2.internaldafny.ExternV2Constructor` 

> This TestModel also demonstrates a "V2" extern system.

Reviewer: Suggestion: Remove repeat. This is stated on line 3.
```suggestion
```

The "V1" extern system applies an `{:extern "..."}` attribute to a module to signal an extern.
This worked for .NET and Java, where this extern string was valid in both languages.
However, this does not work for Python and Go, where this string is not applicable.

The "V2" extern system is intended to allow per-language extern strings.
This system uses the `replaceable` and `replaces` keywords
in conjunction with the `outer-module` compile flag

> to allow a module to have idiomatic extern names in each target language.

Reviewer: Issue/Blocking/Question: I thought `outer-module` did not work,
and we were removing it for just `replaceable`?

Author: That's inaccurate; we want to use both. This TestModel only implements `replaceable` at the moment, but will implement `outer-module` (or its replacement) once that's ready.

> Under this V2 system, a Dafny developer should not directly mark a module as `extern` if the path to the extern module depends on language-specific features.

Reviewer: Question/Blocking: 
Is it language-specific features? Like only Java can use ACCP.
Or is it package naming? Like only Java should use `software.amazon.cryptography`.

Or, more confusingly, is it both?

Reviewer: OK, this question is answered later in this README.
But this sentence is in-accurate, and should be refactored.

A Dafny Developer SHOULD NOT use `extern` if:
1. they will transpile to runtimes that have conflicting package naming requirements
2. the logic will be customized per runtime

For Crypto Tools, (1.) always applies, 
as we transpile to Java and Python, 
which have conflicting package naming requirements.

Author: Will update

(e.g. an `{:extern "sample.namespace.MyExternModule"}` makes sense for Java externs, but the `.`s will break Python externs.)

Instead of marking this module as `extern`, the developer should mark the module as `replaceable`.
Then, they should create a new module that `replaces` the `replaceable` module.
The developer should add the `extern` attribute to this new module.
This module's `extern` attribute will define a namespace-path-syntax-specific extern name (e.g. `.`s vs `_`s).

> For each path syntax, the developer should create a separate module that `replaces` the `replaceable` module.

Reviewer: Question: Err... OK... 
so for every Path Syntax OR Langauge-specific feature, create a `replaces` module?

Author: Something like that. We can use path syntax as long as there are no language-specific features.

I'm open to ideas here. This seems like the least-worst option if we want to avoid repeating extern names.

This TestModel demonstrates per-path-syntax externs in the `ExternV2Constructor` module and in the `WrappedTestDotNamespaced` module.

A second benefit of the V2 extern system is allowing Dafny to generate code only for particular languages.
If an extern module requires specific behavior in a particular language, the extern should NOT be replaced in the path-syntax specific module.
Instead, the developer should write a new file per-language that:
1. `include`s the path-syntax specific module. (This includes any shared extern definitions in the target language.)

> 2. `replaces` the `replaceable` extern module. Here, the developer can add Dafny code specific to the language under generation.

Reviewer: Question: What should the Language/Runtime specific modules be named?
Should the name follow their package naming scheme? 
Or does it not matter, 
as the `pathy-syntax` specific module will define the name.

Author: Are the "Language/Runtime specific modules" just the .dfy files?
These can have any name. We just need to point the Makefile to them. Ideally, we might select some default name that the SharedMakefile can use, and the Makefile would override that if needed. i.e. `NetIndex.dfy`, `JavaIndex.dfy`
